# Open source maintenance guidelines

## Share responsibility

Maintaining an open source project can at times be tiring or time-consuming.
If possible, find another Embark employee to be a co-maintainer of the
project, in order to share the workload and support each other.

## Write detailed issues

Ensure all issues have sufficient context so that people reading them can
understand what they mean, even if they are less familiar with the project.
If the issue is intended to be worked on by community members, add additional
information to help them get started with the implementation. This is
especially important for issues marked “good first contribution”.

## Label issues

If there is an issue for which you would welcome a contribution from someone
outside of Embark, label the issue as “help wanted”.

If you wish to encourage new contributions from outside of Embark, and you
have the time to review and guide contributions from people less familiar
with the code base, label less challenging issues as “good first
contribution”.

## Assign issues

If someone is working on an issue, assign it to them so that other people
know not to attempt to work on it.

## Respond in a timely manner

Respond to issues and pull requests from people outside of Embark as quickly
as possible, aiming to leave the submitter waiting no more than two working
days.

If you are unable to resolve the issue or review the pull request within that
period of time, leave a reply letting the submitter know that you have
received the issue or pull request, and that you will get to it at a later
date. Not knowing the status of your work or problem can be frustrating!

## Be courteous

When interacting with people as the project maintainer be sure to be clearly
polite and respectful, and thank people for their contributions. This helps
build goodwill towards the project, encouraging future contributions and
improving our reputation.

## Assume positive intent

Contributing to open source can be stressful or intimidating, English may not
be their native language, or they may have had a particularly bad day. Any of
these reasons or more can result in people coming across as abrasive or rude.
Where possible, assume that any rudeness is an unintentional accident and
attempt to maintain a polite and friendly atmosphere.

## Offer clear guidance

Offer advice and context on how to implement a feature, and give clear and
actionable feedback when reviewing pull requests.

With simpler contributions, it may be more time-consuming for you to offer
this guidance than it would be for you to just implement the feature
yourself. Nevertheless, it is still worthwhile doing this as it helps the
contributor to learn, building goodwill towards Embark and the project, and
making it more likely they will make more contributions in future.

## Say no when required

There will be times when community members suggest or contribute to changes
that are not suitable for inclusion in the project, either due to a low
quality bar or because the changes are out of scope for the project.

If it is possible for the contributor to improve the quality of their
contribution so that it can be merged, explain the issues to them and offer
guidance on how to improve it so they can submit further changes later.

If the issue or contribution is out of scope for the project, politely
explain this to the contributor along with any reasoning, and then close the
issue, thanking them for their contribution.

## Close stale pull requests

If a pull request is in an unfinished and un-mergeable state, and the
contributor has not made any updates or indicated that they are currently
working on it for over 2 weeks, close the pull request. Closing stale pull
requests makes it clear the project is maintained, and makes it easier to
tell the current state of work on the project.

When closing leave a message thanking them for their contribution and
inviting them to reopen the pull request when they have further changes.

## Perform hand overs

If you are unable to maintain the project for a period of time, e.g. if you
are going on holiday, find another person at Embark to temporarily take over
your responsibilities. Add to this person as a code owner to the repository
to ensure they get appropriate notifications to new issues and pull requests.

If you are leaving Embark or no longer have the desire or capacity to
maintain the project, find another person to adopt the role of maintainer.

If you are unable to find a suitable person, contact the Arkadia Ecosystem
team for help.

## Get help from the ecosystem team

If you find yourself in a situation where you’re not sure what to do, reach
out to the ecosystem team for support. They can be reached via the
`#arkadia-ecosystem` channel in Slack.

## Adhere to the code of conduct

All open source Embark projects have a code of conduct which details the
expected standards of behaviour to which all community members must adhere.
Read the code of conduct and ensure that both yourself and your contributors
follow it. If you have a problem with a community member violating the code
of conduct reach out to the ecosystem team for help.
